Add native assets documentation (#5347)
dart-lang/site-www: src/guides/libraries/c-interop.md

you can use the [`package:ffigen`][ffigen] binding generator
to automatically create FFI wrappers from C header files.

## Building and bundling native assets

{{site.alert.note}}
  The native assets feature is **experimental**,
  and [in active development](https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/issues/50565).
{{site.alert.end}}

Packages containing native code which must be built before the package
can be used, can include a `build.dart` script for building the native code.

Secondly, packages using native code need to access the bundled code at runtime.
To abstract over the bundle format, native code can be accessed via an
_asset id_. Native assets are declared via a `build.dart` script.

> ### Walkthrough of native_add_library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Walkthrough of `native_add_library`
```

You used code font for this name elsewhere, so making it consistent.

> The [native_add_library] example has the minimum necessary code for building

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`native_add_library`][] example has the minimum necessary code for building
```

I forget why but it's better to include the second bracket set.

| [lib/native_add_library.dart](https://github.com/dart-lang/native/blob/main/pkgs/native_assets_cli/example/native_add_library/lib/native_add_library.dart)             | The Dart file that invokes the C function `add` in asset `package:native_add_library/native_add_library.dart` through FFI. (Note that _asset id_ defaults to the library uri.) |
| [test/native_add_library_test.dart](https://github.com/dart-lang/native/blob/main/pkgs/native_assets_cli/example/native_add_library/test/native_add_library_test.dart) | A Dart test using the native code.                                                                                                                                             |
| [build.dart](https://github.com/dart-lang/native/blob/main/pkgs/native_assets_cli/example/native_add_library/build.dart)                                               | A script for compiling `src/native_add_library.c` and declaring the compiled asset with  id `package:native_add_library/native_add_library.dart`.                              |
{:.table .table-striped }

> When `package:native_add_library` is being depended on in a Dart or Flutter
> project, the `build.dart` will automatically be invoked on `run`, `build`, and
> `test` commands. The [native_add_app] example shows use of `native_add_library`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a Dart or Flutter project depends on `package:native_add_library`,
the `build.dart` script will automatically be invoked on `run`, `build`, and
`test` commands. The [native_add_app][] example shows use of `native_add_library`.
```

API documentation for the native assets in Dart FFI is available in

> the `dart:ffi` API reference for [`Native`] and [`DefaultAsset`].
> API documentation for the `build.dart` script is available on
> [native_assets_cli's API reference].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `dart:ffi` API reference for [`Native`][] and [`DefaultAsset`][].
API documentation for the `build.dart` script is available on
[native_assets_cli's API reference][].
```

you can use the [`package:ffigen`][ffigen] binding generator
to automatically create FFI wrappers from C header files.

## Building and bundling native assets

{{site.alert.note}}
  The native assets feature is **experimental**,
  and [in active development](https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/issues/50565).
{{site.alert.end}}

The Native Assets feature aims to resolve a number of issues associated with the

> distribution of Dart packages that depend on native code. It does so by

Reviewer 2: The Native Assets feature aims to make it pleasant for Dart packages to depend on and use native code:

* It packages to include native code (in source or binary form)
* It builds (if needed) the native code or obtains the binaries via a package's `build.dart` file
* It automatically bundles native code into the app
* It automatically makes the native code available at runtime via declarative `@Native<>() extern` syntax

All of this works in standalone dart as well as flutter.

providing uniform hooks for integrating with various build systems involved
in building Flutter and standalone Dart applications.

> With native assets, you can now include a `build.dart` script as part of your

Reviewer 2: The `flutter run` / `flutter build` as well as `dart` and `dart build` tools will now build & bundle any native code. Those tools will look at all package dependencies and obtain binary artifacts (via invoking the package's `build.dart` script - see <links>) relevant for the platform one is building for.

you can use the [`package:ffigen`][ffigen] binding generator
to automatically create FFI wrappers from C header files.

<a id="native-assets"></a>
## Building and bundling native assets

{{site.alert.note}}

>   The native assets feature is **experimental**,

Reviewer 3: Do the following steps and examples work on Dart 3.2.0 stable or should this mention that a beta or dev build is currently needed?

Author: 3.2 stable, but with the experiment flag in Dart (or flutter config in Flutter)

  and [in active development](https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/issues/50565).
{{site.alert.end}}

The Native Assets feature aims to resolve a number of issues associated with
the distribution of Dart packages that depend on native code.
It does so by providing uniform hooks for integrating with various
build systems involved in building Flutter and standalone Dart applications.

The Native Assets feature aims to make it seamless for
Dart packages to depend on and use native code:

* It builds (if needed) the native code or
  obtains the binaries using a package's `build.dart` script.
* It bundles the native [`Asset`][] reported by the `build.dart` script.
* It makes the native assets available at runtime through
  declarative `@Native<>() extern` functions using the [`assetId`][].

> The `flutter run` / `flutter build` and `dart` / `dart build` tools

Reviewer 3: Should this specify `dart run`? Or does only the base command support it currently?

```suggestion
The `flutter run` / `flutter build` and `dart run` / `dart build` tools
```

Author: Dart run is better.

will now build and bundle native code when

> [opted in](#experiment-opt-in) to the native experiment.

Reviewer 3: Should this be specific about the flag used?

```suggestion
[opted in](#experiment-opt-in) to the `native-assets` experiment.
```

Author: The info on how to opt in is in the two linked issues. It's a it different for Dart than for Flutter. Flutter is a global persistent config, Dart is a per-invocation command-line flag.

We could add it at the bottom if you prefer. Martin suggested the same earlier.

Reviewer 3: Sorry I sometimes think too much on the Dart side of things. I think what you have now makes sense!

Could you update your two issues to have more a prominent "Try now" h2 or h3 header or similar with the instructions. The small notes at the top may be a bit easy for readers to miss.

Author: Updated the issues to be bold at the top, fixed the Dart command (the experiment flag should be _before_ `run`) and updated the message to refer to the stable versions.

| [`lib/native_add_library.dart`](https://github.com/dart-lang/native/blob/main/pkgs/native_assets_cli/example/native_add_library/lib/native_add_library.dart)             | The Dart file that invokes the C function `add` in asset `package:native_add_library/native_add_library.dart` through FFI. (Note that _asset id_ defaults to the library uri.) |
| [`test/native_add_library_test.dart`](https://github.com/dart-lang/native/blob/main/pkgs/native_assets_cli/example/native_add_library/test/native_add_library_test.dart) | A Dart test using the native code.                                                                                                                                             |
| [`build.dart`](https://github.com/dart-lang/native/blob/main/pkgs/native_assets_cli/example/native_add_library/build.dart)                                               | A script for compiling `src/native_add_library.c` and declaring the compiled asset with  id `package:native_add_library/native_add_library.dart`.                              |
{:.table .table-striped }

When a Dart or Flutter project depends on `package:native_add_library`,
the `build.dart` script will automatically be

> invoked on `run`, `build`, and `test` commands.

Reviewer 3: Does this apply to these three subcommands for both `dart` and `flutter`? What about `dart <>` without `run`?

Also, does the experiment not work with `dart compile`?

Author: `dart compile` creates a single file, and native assets are files. Therefore `dart build` creates a directory rather than a file. `dart compile` gives an error if there are native assets now. (In some future we might be able to statically link the native code all in to one executable, but that's not yet possible.)

`dart path/to/file` works after having done `dart run`:

```
dacoharkes-macbookpro2:native_add_app dacoharkes$ pwd
/Users/dacoharkes/src/dart-lang/native/pkgs/native_assets_cli/example/native_add_app
dacoharkes-macbookpro2:native_add_app dacoharkes$ dart --enable-experiment=native-assets bin/native_add_app.dart 
Invoking a native function to calculate 1 + 2.
Unhandled exception:
Invalid argument(s): Couldn't resolve native function 'add' in 'package:native_add_library/native_add_library.dart' : dlsym(RTLD_DEFAULT, add): symbol not found.

#0      FfiTrampoline__ffi_resolver (dart:ffi)
#1      _add$Method$FfiNative$Ptr (package:native_add_library/native_add_library.dart:12:14)
#2      _add$Method$FfiNative$Ptr (package:native_add_library/native_add_library.dart)
#3      add (package:native_add_library/native_add_library.dart)
#4      main (file:///Users/dacoharkes/src/dart-lang/native/pkgs/native_assets_cli/example/native_add_app/bin/native_add_app.dart:9:18)
#5      _delayEntrypointInvocation.<anonymous closure> (dart:isolate-patch/isolate_patch.dart:297:19)
#6      _RawReceivePort._handleMessage (dart:isolate-patch/isolate_patch.dart:184:12)
dacoharkes-macbookpro2:native_add_app dacoharkes$ dart --enable-experiment=native-assets run
Building package executable... 
Built native_add_app:native_add_app.
Invoking a native function to calculate 1 + 2.
Invocation success: 1 + 2 = 3.
dacoharkes-macbookpro2:native_add_app dacoharkes$ dart --enable-experiment=native-assets bin/native_add_app.dart 
Invoking a native function to calculate 1 + 2.
Invocation success: 1 + 2 = 3.
```

It then uses the cached native assets builds.

Reviewer 3: As long as `dart compile` has an appropriate error, which it seems to as you mentioned, I'm happy. Thanks for the clarification!

https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/blob/3c456ccbd225a1655c9fdf2eb7c9e452fec2b632/pkg/dartdev/lib/src/commands/compile.dart#L339

[mini tutorial.]: https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/blob/main/samples/ffi/sqlite/docs/sqlite-tutorial.md
[`NativeType`]: {{site.dart-api}}/{{site.data.pkg-vers.SDK.channel}}/dart-ffi/NativeType-class.html
[ffigen]: {{site.pub-pkg}}/ffigen
[`native_add_library`]: https://github.com/dart-lang/native/tree/main/pkgs/native_assets_cli/example/native_add_library
[`native_add_app`]: https://github.com/dart-lang/native/tree/main/pkgs/native_assets_cli/example/native_add_app
[`Native`]: {{site.dart-api}}/dev/dart-ffi/Native-class.html

> [`DefaultAsset`]: {{site.dart-api}}/dev/dart-ffi/DefaultAsset-class.html

Reviewer 3: You link to the dev versions here. Is this intentional or are the 3.2.0 API docs sufficient? If not, can we find a happy medium with the beta versions? :)

Author: I think once the API docs are out for 3.2 stable, it's fine to link to stable

Reviewer 3: They were published a bit earlier and looks like they are now the default. I've updated the links :D 

Thanks!
